 
 
Mohamed Samir Mahmoud  
Gender: Male 
Nationality: Egyptian 
Marital Status: Single 
Languages:  Arabic Native Language 
  English Read/Write 
Address: Building no. 30 77 Maadi street, Cairo, Egypt. 
Mobile: +201141914097 
Email:  msamir.abdelkhalk@gmail.com  
T  E  C H N I C A L    S K I L L S 
 
Programming Languages 
 Java 8 Standard Edition  
 Java 8 Enterprise Edition  
 C++  
 
Web and Database Technologies 
 HTML       
 JDBC, ODBC    
 JSP & Servlets     
 JavaScript                                          
 AngularJs                                          
 
Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) 
 Eclipse 
 NetBeans 
 Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 
 
Database Management Systems DBMS 
 Microsoft SQL Server 2000/2005/2008 
 MySQL V5.0 
 IBM DB2 V10 
 
Application Servers 
 Apache Tomcat 
 jetty  
 IBM WebSphere Application server V8.5 
Design & Analysis 
 Object Oriented Design and programming (OOD 
& OOP) 
 Software Requirement, Design and analysis 
Documentation (SRS). 
 Database designing & implementation concepts. 
 
Case Tools 
 Sybase Power Designer 6.0 
 Visual Paradigm  
            
             Cloud Platform  
 Google App Engine  
 IBM BlueMix. 
 
CTI 
 Genesys CIM 
 Genesys Recording  
 Genesys Reporting 
 
 
 
 
 
P R O F E  S S I O N A L    E  X P E  R I EN C E   
   
 ISTNetworks 
 Application Developer                    May 2017 – Currently  
Working now as application developer over genesys platform. Creating customized Genesys reports, IVR projects and 
maintaining genesys platform. 
 
 Genesys System Engineer                      October 2016 – April 2017 
Worked as Genesys system engineer, installing, configuring, testing, maintaining Genesys platform components and 
applications. Besides, provide support for live support through service edge.  
  
G-Planet 
 Front end developer                       July 2016 – September 2016 
         Worked as front end developer using JavaScript framework (Angularjs) and BootStrap to provide web abased 
application.   
 
 
 
 
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
P R O J  E  C T  S  
 
ISTNetworks 
 IST Health Check Tool      February 2017 – April 2017 
             This application aims to send customized contact center interval based reports to check if the solution working as expected or if there are 
any technical issues.  
 
G-Planet        
 Barcode App                       July 2016 – September 2016  
             This application aims to facilitate learning process by helping teachers to evaluate their students, then notify their parents of their actual 
education level and how much effort they spent to learn. 
 
Freelance  
 Kidnapped App                                   May 2016 – June 2016 
             This project aims to help parents to find their children, the system allows user to add new case either kidnapped or found. After that, the 
system recognizes if there is a matching case in the database or not, based on processing the child images then notify the users about matching 
case(s) to communicate and reach out their child. 
 
IBM (Internships)                      
 IBM Survey Tool                                                    July 2014 – September 2014 
             This project was an internal tool used by IBM employees to evaluate any engagement/project in IBM. The evaluation was based on many 
factors like "time to prepare the development environment", "time to learn the required skills", "Was there any Kick Off session?", "Was the 
duration of the project reasonable?" and so on. This is how IBM Survey tool works; the manager initiates the request to start a new survey, 
choose the appropriate questions from a ready question list and those questions have weight to evaluate the engagement, and send the survey 
request to the employees. After IBM employees provide their opinions, IBM managers can evaluate the subject engagement from different 
perspectives.          
 
 IBM Achievements App                            July 2015 – September 2015 
            The achievement application is an internal IBM tool used by IBM employees to gather their achievements monthly. The main objective of 
this tool is to facilitate the gathering process of employees' achievements through an automated tool instead of an excel sheet. This how the tool 
works; IBM employee initiates a new request to add his/her new achievement. Then a mail notification is sent to his manager to approve or reject 
his/her achievement request. Also IBM managers use this tool for reporting purposes and it helps them to track their employees progress. 
 
Graduation Project 
 Virtual Optics Store  
           The main Objective of this project to let customers benefit from online shopping concept by browsing online through glasses in specific 
optics store, solve the problem of the wrong decisions by letting customers try glasses while being home, make the trail process done at real time 
to improve customer’s decision.  
 
 
E  D U C A T  I O N 
  
Faculty of computer and information Cairo University –Egypt 
 Major: Computer Science Department 
 Minor: Information Systems Department 
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
